From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number one 74. Recorded
live Thursday, July 30th, 2009. Support for
Hansel minutes is provided by
tolerant rad controls, the most
comprehensive suite of components for
windows forms and asp.net web
applications. online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this episode
of Hansel minutia, Scott talks
with Richard Campbell. This has got
handsome when you're listening to
Hansel minutes with me. Today
is Scott Hanselman. Hi Scott.
Hi Scott. How are you,
Scott? I'm well, you a,
your voice has changed. Yeah,
I've gotten older and wiser
and Canadian. Now you're just
making fun of me. Well,
that's true. Richard Campbell. Thank you
so much for coming on
the show for another episode
of Hansel minutia with Richard Campbell.
Always a pleasure, sir. Very
cool. Someone told me once
on Twitter that they were
getting tired of putting the
word Hansel in front of
stuff. They think that, that
I think they think it's
a little overplayed and I
think it is hilarious. It's
my revenge for being called
Hansel dork in high school.
Now we've got some, we're
listening to some Hansel minutes
and, and you got me
logged into a very cool
tool that I've never heard
of before called ether pad.
Yeah. Yeah. I, you know,
I'm a remote worker, so
I'm always trying to do
things remotely, right. And I
spent a lot of time
in notepad or notepad plus
or plus plus, or notepad
too. And I always end
up trying to share my
notepad to somebody because what
I really want is to
be able to just do
multi-person editing and what this
is is called ether pad
either like ether, net, but
ETA G R pad. So
I've got an ether pad
where you and I can
both basically hit the same
website at a very easy
to remember URL and we
can be editing and it'll
automatically highlight our text. So
it's some of the multi
multi-person editors of the past,
except with a web and
Ajax twist. So we're looking
at our notes for today's
show here on the ether
pad. And I think it's
great. And as a remote
worker, it's going to make
collaboration a lot easier, especially
for brainstorming. I've done a
lot of brainstorming with one
note. I don't know if
you've ever played with that.
We throw one out up
on the projector and you
can actually have two people
connected to the same document
at the same time. One
guy's the host and the
other, one's sort of a
guess you can do that
and you can type to
each other. But the problem
was whenever we were brainstorming,
we always insist that everyone
participates. So no secretaries are
allowed. Oh, I like that.
And so whoever was there
always needed to be two
people taking notes so that
if one person that's one
of the persons that could
take notes, wanted to contribute,
there was somebody else to
take those notes. Is it
limited to two people? Or
you said you can have
unlimited, as far as I
know, it's limited to two
people. Cause it's just sort
of a free thing that
happens with two people who
have a OneNote account. They
can, they can just connect
Up and both contribute to
the thing, but, and it
works over the internet or
it's an, it was an
intra within the network kind
of thing. We'd have the
one note up on the
big screen as well, but
it was, I wouldn't function
without it. I'm surprised how
hooked I am. On one
note, all sh all my
show planning is done with
one note, Really I'm an
Evernote person and ever, and
I don't know what Evernote
is scandalous. So we all
know what one note is.
One note is the note
taking application that comes with
office. And it's been an
office since I think 2003,
it's had a lot of
upgrades and then it's even
shiny or an office 14,
but a Evernote is a
note taking application that has
kind of distinguished itself through
its ubiquity across platforms. So
there's any windows mobile version.
There's an iPhone version. There's
a very nice web version.
There are bookmarklets that you
can drag little JavaScript snippets
that you can drag into
the bookmarks of your, your
browser. And it's also got
some hotkeys, just a lot,
like one note, but it's,
it's synchronized into the cloud.
So it's like one note,
although one notes getting cloud
synchronization, but it's it. Everything
is stored in the cloud.
And it also doesn't just
have texts notes, but also
audio and picture notes. And
what's cool about the picture
notes is that you take
a picture of something and
somewhere magically, that information gets
OCR, optical character recognition gets
read by a computer. So
then when you go searching
for something, it'll find the
text and highlighted interest on
the picture itself. To me,
sounds like the sort of
claim to fame of this
app is snapping an image
with some device and then
having the OCR be searchable.
Exactly. And you know, the
person who told me about
this idea of snapping images
of everything was, was Scott,
Kate. He has a Sony
camera that he carries around
with him everywhere. And he
takes pictures of everything, everything,
yes, everything. He takes pictures
of receipts. He takes pictures
of the hotel bill, and
then he puts all that
stuff on the computer. Now
he's using a nice quality
camera when I can get
three, four and five megapixels
on a phone, then I'm
finally down to one device.
And if it's hooked up
to Evernote, this will be
a really nice way to,
you know, I'm looking at
a pile of paper here.
I'd love to take pictures
of these business cards and
different things and have the
most yard mail to search
for, And then get rid
of all the paper. Well,
yeah, isn't that funny? And
then file the paper away
for reference. Please Save me
a file. I file it
away effectively for garbage. Yeah.
Isn't it funny how I'm
starting to treat my life
like, like, like Gmail, where
it's like, there's an archive
button and it's my trashcan.
Yeah. Off it goes. Yeah,
exactly. Well, I know as
you know, when we built
the office, we put four
good size file drawers in
them and you know, they're
filled with files, no idea
what set of anymore. I
think we loaded them up
and we've never touched them.
You, the thing is though,
you never know, and this,
this is why my wife
handles this stuff for me.
She's the receipt keeper. And
I'm, you know, I never
take things back until I
totally need the receipt and
I'm taking something back. I
think I take one item
back to the store a
year and I need to
take this video game back.
And I have no idea
where it is. My wife
went directly to it. You
knew exactly where it was.
Apparently we keep everything. I
had no idea. She may
be pulling it out of
the trash and filing it
away. Yeah. She made me
just creating it on the
fly, but it doesn't matter.
It does what it's supposed
to do. So have you
been following any of the,
the, the portal stuff that
I'm been working on? I
have heard the phrase Hansel
portal Say now, because we're
going to lose listeners, Hansel
listeners. Can we Active X
portal? Could we just, you
know, switch up sub suit
on the term in that's
very popular. Ooh. This is
an interesting concept that you've
just invented is, is Hansel
as a prefix, the new
active Or the new.net. This
is what I think if
they're getting tired of it
it's for that reason. Well,
I think active X is
a good example. Is that
word that doesn't really mean
anything anymore? Absolutely. Like it
used to mean something and
it was like their entire
strategy and now it means
nothing. So apparently Hansel used
to mean something amazing and
wonderful. And now it's just
sad, like ActiveX. Wow. I
mean, there's been lots of
buzz phrases that Microsoft manufactured
over the years that just
remember, you know, windows DNA,
like what was that? It
just sort of went well,
you know, we tried to
make something go of it
and it just sort of
went away or when they
lived everything or they.net everything.
, That's why I like
MVC. Right. We didn't call
it asp.net super-duper version or
something. We just call it
NBC. Cause that's what it
was. Yeah. It's actually a
description of what it is.
It's nothing more, but least
where I think code names
stick around. Right? Like a
good code name is often
better than the product name.
It just won't go away.
Well like a story, the
greatest code name. I don't
know why, but it's mostly
because a product name is
dreadful A D o.net data
services for windows. You still
don't know what it is.
The thing thing you like
about a story is, you
know what it is, even
though it's not descriptive, you
know what it is Totally.
I need a code name
for my portal. I'm turning
my head here and I
can, I will, I've got
a machine set up where
I can see Phil hack
in his office and we're
calling it the Hansel port.
We have basically, we've dedicated
two machines to this, this
exercise. And I can see
Phil's, he's got actually two
people in his office. He's
got a, a cubicle mate
and we've set that machine
to automatically turn on. We've
got a video on it
and I can, I can
just kind of say, Hey,
Phil, what's going on? What
are you doing? So you're
just there all the time.
What's the app you're using
to create the book. Well,
in this case, we're using
Skype. And the reason is,
is that I couldn't figure
out a way with windows
live messenger to have it
automatically answer automatically go full
screen and be high Rez.
And Skype has the features
that will let you pick
up the phone and go
full screen. I'm considering using
office communicator, which is our
internal tool. Right. But it
would require me to be
logged in as me On
the, on the machine and
Phil's off On the machine.
And then the issue is
that that machine and Phil's
office is on the network.
Right? So I can't necessarily
have someone logged in as
me on a machine that
I can't control two miles
away. Yeah, no. So what
we're doing is we've got
a machine, we've got a
very weak user as if
you know, the kind of
the kind of user you
would set up. If you
were making a machine for
like a small child and
this small child is allowed
using the family safety features
in windows only to run
Skype. And the Skype account
is only allowed to talk
to one other Skype account.
So we've really locked the
machine down to basically it
can't do anything but run,
You know, I, I put
an HP touch Bart machine
into the kitchen. Oh, the
big 25 Disposable income that
you would just say, you
know, let's get a touch
smart machine. Cause he's posted
notes are really a hassle.
But one of the things
we've set up is, is
an auto connecting Skype for
exactly that reason. So that
when I'm on the road,
I can pretty much just
drop in and look into
the kitchen. That's wonderful and
creepy. It is kind of
wonderful and creepy, especially catching
my family at dinner. You
know, it's all like, hi
guys. Yep. It's funny that
you say that because I
think I mentioned this before
on the show, but one
time I did that where
the wife had left the
laptop on the kitchen and
my, my three year old
said, daddy, come out of
the computer and have dinner.
That's brilliant. Oh man, Hey
kids come up with some
good one-liners actually, what is
it? You did you have
a site for this? Don't
you? I actually have a
whole site dedicated to my
kids and to your kids.
One-liners, it's called overheard@home.com. Right.
And I've also got a
Twitter account associated with it.
And yet people just go
to overheard at home, you
know, it's interesting. It hasn't
taken off the way I
thought it would. Cause it's
not like these other sites
where it's like, like, what
is it called? Fail blog.
You see in the fail
blog. Yes. Yeah. It's an
entire blog dedicated to things
failing horribly. Yup. That's that's
like, you know, what's the,
what's the word? Shedding, Florida.
Yep. That's the word. Right?
Taking the pleasure and the
failure of others. Exactly. It
seems like all of the
sites that succeed on the
net that are like crowdsource,
whether it be fail blog
or other sites, like it
are all dedicated, like, Oh,
what's the other one. Is
it awful? Family photos.com. Yeah.
I don't think I need
to know about that one.
Basically. It's just like all
those really horrible portraits that
you took in the nineties
of your family. These are
all sites dedicated to shedding
Florida. Well, overheard at home
is like kids say the
darndest things. Yeah. It's sweet.
So it's like, it's like,
it's like every few years
the newsman on the, you
know, the newsreader on the,
on the TV says, now
we're going to dedicate, you
know, 30 seconds of each
broadcast to good news. You
know, the rest of the,
the, the half hour of
news will be all about
death and destruction and bombs.
But, but at the end
here, we'll say yes, and
a flower grew in Brooklyn
today. And then of course
that always gets abandoned. Right.
So my side is the
same way. It's just full
of nothing but cute stories
of poop and babies and
no one visits it. So
See, I've got teenagers. So
the only thing there would
say is, Oh dad, and,
Oh my God, you're so
embarrassing me. Yeah. See, that
would not be a compelling
content. Not so much. Yeah.
I couldn't really build a
website around that. It explains
why soon my site overheard
at home will appear on
the failed blog As itself.
An example of a huge
failure. Yeah. There you nice.
See how we did that
full circle. That was beautiful.
Brought it all the way
around. I like that. I
like that. It's very nice.
I almost think we knew
what we were doing. So
in seven RTM. Yeah. It's
funny. I actually, I just
upgraded my portal to a,
to win seven RTM and
interestingly enough, it looks just
like the release candidate. So
yeah. Well, and I, of
course I'm on the outside.
I'm not in the inside,
like some people, so I
got to wait until I
think August 8th. So we're in
that terrible. I know it's
released I can't Habit. I
think when we realized this
show will become out on
August 7th. So you only have
to wait until tomorrow. So
feel good about that. I'm
feeling better already. Yeah. It's
funny though. I, I asked
my wife, I was like,
so can I upgrade your
laptop? And she's like, you
cannot touch my laptop. Yeah.
Get away. Yes. So I
it's the only machine in
the house it's gonna be
running Vista. And the only
reason is is that it
works fine. Yeah. You just
have to wait till it
breaks. Yeah, exactly. Which interestingly
enough, last night the wireless
stopped working on her machine,
but she's not blaming Microsoft.
She blames Dell. Okay. That's
fair. I think she should
blame Intel cause it's their
wireless chip, but either way
Now, what is it about
windows seven that has everyone
convinced that it's going to
be better than Vista? You
know, I did an interview
recently on run ass with
Mark Munich, Run as radio.
You're a podcast for those
people who don't listen to
it, who should Thank you.
And Menassey, as soon as
I started talking along, along
the lines of wind, 70
says, if you don't have
any empirical data about why
it's better, don't talk to
me about it. Cause I
didn't hate Vista and I
don't hate wind seven, but
I don't believe it. It's
better. So well Trying to
grab on to what is
it about wind seven? That's
actually better. Okay. So you
know how they say, this
is just me guessing I'm
making this up. You know
how they say that, you
know, the death by a
thousand cuts. Yep. Right. It's,
it's that there's a thousand
little tiny things that don't
poke you with a sharp
stick in the eye over
the course of your day.
Yeah. Like let me get
an example. I set up
my machine here and I
realized I needed to get
some clocks up for my
team because I don't know
the different time zones of
the various people in my
team. Okay. That's fair. I've
just, I've just installed windows.
I'm like, Oh, I need
it. I need some clocks.
Sorry. I mean like this
was a true story. So
I hit the start menu
and I type in clock
Oakland. And then it says,
add clocks for different time
zones. That's like the second
option. Swear to God. Wow.
Third option. Add the clock
gadget to the desktop fourth,
you know, another show or
hide clock icon on task
bar. Holy mackerel. Right. I
got a Vista box here.
I'm going to type clocks
in and see what it
tells you what happens. Okay.
This is good. Dan. I
have one. Yeah. Okay. So
I've got a bunch of,
I've got a bunch of
some web links sounds that
have the word clock in
them. Like the USB tube
clock. I have a couple
of files of Try typing
in Ram. All right. I
type in Ram. I see
show how much Ram is
on this computer. I see.
I Golf games. Nice. I
also see diagnose your computer's
memory problems. So these are
the kinds of things. That's
just housings of little things
like that. Like the troubleshooters,
I always love to give
the example of the troubleshooters.
What I do is I'll,
I'll, I'll I'll type in
troubleshoot and there's a whole
troubleshooting thing. And they're basically
these PowerShell packs that we'll
figure out all the kind
of stuff that I would
have to do for my
mom or my dad or
my cousin. He doesn't, for
me, one of them I
actually ended up using recently.
I couldn't figure out why
my audio wasn't working on
stage. I'm sitting there. Why
is y'all not working? So
I go to the troubleshooter
and I type, I click
on troubleshoot audio playback and
it goes, and it churns
for a while. And it
says, your speaker's not plugged
in. No kidding. Sorry. They've
got, you know, they can
tell if speakers are plugged
in or not. And another
time I did it and
it actually said, Oh, it
was, it was muted. I
un-muted it for you. That's
awesome. That's troubleshooters actually work
Troubleshooting. And what's great is
that they can be updated.
You can write your own
troubleshooters. So your ID, your
it department can package these
things out, these PowerShell packs
and, and, and, and send
them out and have troubleshooters
for your applications. Right? Yeah.
That's very cool. One of
the things that I noticed
about wind seven when I
was digging into this was,
was the network stack. And
I think that, I think
that the impact of the
replacement of the windows 2000
network stack, which is what
was in windows 2000, 2003,
2003, our two and XP,
they redid it for Vista.
And I think we've grossly
underestimated the impact that that
actually had. And one of
the big changes they made
in when seven, which I've
definitely seen examples of now,
because I've got a laptop
running windows seven, is it
Invista? If you suspended, when
you came back up, it
reinitialize the entire network stack
from scratch. So new IP,
new everything go renegotiate, everything,
just presume I'm in a
different world, start over. And
that's the big thing. There
is basically, you know, T's
that network stack owns your
machine, right? When it says
I'm busy for a minute
here, busy for a minute,
like there's nothing you can
do. Really. That's one of
the reasons I think outlook
just goes out the window
is that the Vista networks
doc would take off. Yeah.
It's frustrating how with putting
a single bite on the
wire is a blocking call
for a quad proc machine
with 12 gigs of Ram.
Yeah. It totally, you know,
it's just, it owns it
too much. And in wind
seven, they've changed that now
where they don't, they, they
make a much more progressive
failure of, do we still
have that SSI? D do
we still have this domain?
Like, so just give a
chance to stay where you
are so that you stay
responsive. It's funny that you
say that because another, another
example of something that is
a noticeably noticeably different, but
only because it sucks before
was that I always told
people that the difference between
a Mac and a windows
machine is that you can
close a Mac and trust
that it'll fall asleep. Yes.
But when you close a
windows machine, it's always like
trying to peek at the
light in your refrigerator and
you close it and then
you like open it and
close it. You open. Is
it going to sleep? Is
it going to say, you
know, that someone's running a
PC? Cause they get about,
you know, get down to
about 20 degrees or about
to close the thing and
then they wait, why haven't
you closed your laptop? Well,
I'm not sure. I'm not
sure what it's doing. I
mean, not shut down windows
seven. I can actually close
the laptop and feel confident
that it's not going to
freak out. Hey everybody, this
is Scott coming at you
from another place in time.
Summer is peaking. And our
friends at Tellerik are working
at full steam. They've just
released the Q2 volume of
the telework premium collection for.net.
The biggest release yet it's
packed with new things. That'll
excite anyone. Who's got to
do anything with that net
development, starting with Silverlight and
the introduction of the first
commercial 3d chart in the
market. It's developed as a
true vector 3d, which gives
you a nice performance enriched
capabilities with rotation and animations.
Also the Silverlight scheduler, which
is packed with even more
features in the first version.
Telerx flagship red controls for
asp.net. Ajax grows in this
release, not only with four
new controls, but also with
new productivity tools. There's the
new visual style builder, an
online application that allows you
to visually modify skins or
even design new ones with
just point and click. If
that's not enough, they've added
a completely new product, a
free testing framework powered by
art of test for automating
Ajax. And Silverlight rich internet
applications. I'm short on time.
So I can't give you
all the new features and
enhancements until our reporting open-access
RM or wind forms, but
I encourage you to check
out all of these products@tellerik.com.
Thanks. Yeah, I think we're
finally getting to the point
where the mobile stuff works.
Really? Yeah. It was worth
the 15 year. Wait, It's
been so hard. I mean,
still the other thing that's
fascinating to me here is
that are we really gonna
get to a 64 bit
desktop routine? Oh yeah. I
think we will. It's going
to be the next one.
I'm sure it will because
it's a 64 bit server
now, right? Windows server 2008.
Our two is 64 bit
only. Is that right? Well,
and as it should be,
there's no reason in the
world not to make servers
64 bit, but desktops, I
think you still struggle a
bit with desktops behaving. Well,
do we need this? There's
so many applications. I think
that's the big thing with
servers is you could still
generally count on, on your
fingers. How many apps you
have on a given server.
And that's just not true
in a desktop machine. Yeah,
the, I of course the,
the, for me, the real
fence post here is office.
When office is 64 bit,
then I will believe, Well
there, you know, there is
a 64 bit office 14.
I've heard rumor to that
effect, but I have not
seen it or I've run
it. Okay. I have run
it, which is great because
it lets, lets outlook use
gigs of memory. It really
opens it up. The question
is, is outlook actually memory
constraint. Is that why it's
killing me? No, I'm kidding.
Yeah. We really need is
for it to have several
network stacks. Yeah. Oh yeah.
I don't know why I'll
look as I'll look as
is, has trouble because multithreading
is hard. Is what I,
I tend to agree. I'm
glad I'm I'm sorry. I
keep referencing other shows here.
But I think at the
end of a show, we
did a DNR with Jeff
rector. He made me fire
up task manager, throw the,
the threads on and then
sort by, you know, most
threads and outlook had 65
threads running. Yeah, that's fine.
Yeah. That's a lot of
threads. And then I thought,
and then my next thought
was, and apparently none of
them are for me. Oh
really? You don't get like
62 of them. Yeah. Well
it was off doing, it
was still that point where
I can't type email. Alright,
I'm going to do this
right now. I'm bringing up
the number of threads. Yeah,
this is good. There you
go. Outlook 55 office communicator,
47 MSN messenger, 40 Chrome,
25. It looks like being
on the network. Every, every
one of these is on
the network, iTunes 25. It
strikes me that developers are
reflexively throwing their network connection
off on its own thread
or two because they know
it's blocking and still somehow
they're getting blocked. See, I'm
looking down at the bottom
here, Kenny cures window clippings.
It's a screenshot application to
threads and I respect, I
respect Kenny that much more
now. Yeah. I only, he
needed my sticky note application.
The one that does my
post it to my screen,
eight threads. I think it's
time for a multithreading show
because I've seen some really
amazing stuff though. Coming in.net
four. It's going to make
threading a lot easier. You've
heard about like the parallel
extensions. Oh yeah. And the
transactional memory too. I'm excited
about that. All right. And
then the, the task task
factory, I've seen people write
really sophisticated multithreading code without
actually saying the word thread.
Nice. Which is pretty cool.
Well, I think this is
where we need to go.
We need to make this
more transparent to the regular
developer that it just, it
happens naturally. Describe what you
want to have happen. I'll
deal with the threads I
had meant to. Cause you've
talked about it several times,
but I've never really heard
the whole story of your
obsession around this arcade machine.
Yeah. I don't know. Basically
if it was, it was
less about the arcade machine
and more about a personal
declaration of become handy. Right?
You remember this, you were
actually using power tools and
keeping all your fingers. Yeah.
Well most of nine. I
mean you have, you have,
you have extra fingers, right?
That's why they're given 10
spares. Yeah. You could lose
three, four fingers and really
keep still, it'd be a
lot more productive. You use
less punctuation when you tight,
but you're still deeply productive
if you're you're my emails
start to look like E
Cummings poems for the four
people who got that reference.
But yeah, I, my father
is handy. I did a
show with my dad for
those listeners who have not
heard the legendary Scott interviews,
his dance show. And he
is one of these kind
of like, you know, you
know, he's a man with
like big beefy hands, like
bunches of bananas. You know
what I'm saying? Right. You
just like, you know how
you, you see basketball players
who can like Palm a
basketball and pick it up.
You know, he could do
that with your head. You
can like literally pick you
up by the top of
your head. I have a
pretty big head fingers like
bananas. So he's very handy.
My brother also is handy.
He lives on a farm.
He's always there's hay as
being thrown around and browse
or being wiped, just general
things that I'm not familiar
with. And I just said,
one day, you know, I'm
going to stop hiring handyman
and having people come over
and, and I, where I
pay them to emasculate me
in front of my family.
Cause that's effectively, that's what
it is. Right. You tell
yourself you're too busy, but
ultimately it's because you're not
handy. So I, I get
some power tools. And actually
my friend, John Bettendorf got
me, some introduced me to
a friend who gave me
some power tools. So I've
got the power tools with
batteries. You know, like you
always have like four batteries
and you're rotating the rechargeable
batteries, right? So we put
up a, a square foot
garden. I did 96 square
feet of gardening space. So
if you ever need a
ton of lettuce, we have,
we have more lettuce than
apparently really one thing of
lettuce is enough for a
family of four but 36
square feet of lettuce has
been much poor planning on
my part really well. Let's
just excite you to think
about lettuces that it grows
well, it's amazing how little
you need to put on
top of a taco. And
then the rest is like,
Oh, there's a head of
lettuce. We just threw away.
Anyway, it was wildly successful.
I made like all of
nine cuts with a circular
saw to make this thing
happen. And then I was
like, Oh, well I've done
this now. I've cut wood
nine times. It's time to
make an arcade machine. That
was like the clear transition
obviously. Yeah. From lettuce to
Firefox. Where else could I
have gone with that? Yeah.
So I was poking around
and I, I put together,
I basically, I was going
to build one. I got
this book called a project
arcade and it's a, it's
like a arcade games for
dummies thing. And it has
a PDF inside and I
was going to go and
cut all this wood. And
then I went on Craigslist
and found a guy who
had an old arcade machine.
That was not one that
you'd want to save it.
Wasn't like Pac-Man or donkey
Kong. It was video arcade,
trivia, something, you know, I
was not a classic. So
then I decided, what am
I going to go the
kit car way where I'm
going to build a porch,
but it's not really a
poorest it's just made of
plastic. And it's like running
on it like a Toyota
Tercel or do I go
and find a classic car
and, and revitalize it. So
I took the revitalization route
and I took this old
machine and I sanded it
down with an orbit sander
and I primed it and
painted it twice. And we
hooked up the lights on
the coin slots so that
they would light up. I
felt very, very he one
Oh one about that. That
was thrilling. You know, you
need a resistor when you
do that. Discover it. Yeah.
I'm using buzzwords like that.
Oh, you're living on the
edge. Oh, I am. Okay.
The last thing I remember
at EA was I made
a digital clock when I
was like 19. And that
was pretty much the extent
of my knowledge around, you
know, I can say amps
and ohms and tell them
pretty much tell you what's
the difference between them. But
yeah, it was cool. I
put a computer in the
end of this box and
I hooked up a flat
screen monitor, and now I
can play doom or Bejeweled
or whatever the wife wants
to play. Basically. I've made
a computer case that looks
a lot like an arcade
machine. Yeah. It's like a
kiosk type machine. Really? Exactly
what it is. I've made
a kiosk. Yeah. Right. And
then, you know, and there's
a whole, you know, kind
of underground of people who
do like arcade games and
stuff. And there's that whole
thing. There's a level of
crazy about arcade machines that
is kind of stunning. That's
what I love about the
internet. Every time I feel
like a weirdo, just go
online for a little while.
You know, you'll find people
way further out than you
ever thought you could go
really, even in water cooling.
And now I know I'm
obsessed about water cooling. I
found a guy who had
hooked up his pool to
coolest machines really. And I'm
like, I talked to him,
I sent him an email
and it just felt, made
me feel so much better.
Okay. Know, you're into that
water cooling stuff. That's so
scary to me. It's a
lot of cooling is good,
man. It's my, my computers
are cold. Quiet water cooling
is great until your, until
your computer is under water.
Yeah. Well done that. You
have done that. Absolutely. See,
this is the seeding underbelly
of the water cooling community
that you don't, you don't
hear about it. I would
not call it the seating
on their burial. Having had
a traffic water incident, not
a big deal. The real
seeding underbelly of water cooling
is a collapsed hoses. Suddenly
water won't pump anymore, a
occasional failed pump. But I
think the biggest thing is
the quarterly water top-up that
every three months or so,
I got to go around
and take the little caps
off my war's VARs. And
top up with demineralized water,
You are topping up your
computer. I don't know. I
want to change the oil
on my computer. It's bad
enough that I opened the
thing every, you know, every
half decade and find that,
you know, dust bunnies have
decided to open up shop
inside the thing there's more
dust than there is computer
parts. I don't, I don't
think I want to change
the oil. I have no
dust in my machines at
all because I have no
fans in my machines. So
my machines are pristine and
clean, but I do have
to pour water into them
on a routine basis. You're
going to have to speak
up. I can't hear you
over the sound of the
fans and the computers in
my office. It's serious. It's
like living inside a jet
engine. Yeah. Yeah. I know.
Well, and, and I, you
know, I share my office
with my wife, right. Who
you've met and, and she
appreciates it. The fact that
the office is quiet. There's
just additional noise in here.
We just don't have any
fans. Wow. That's pretty slick.
So there's, there's some value
there without a doubt. Yeah.
Do you have an arcade
machine? I do not. I
don't have the arcade machine
obsession. I have certainly have,
I have friends who do
like Pac-Man restorations, which just
like the automobile type restorations.
They're obsessed with nothing but
original parts. And, and that
whole thing. And I got
a friend who actually has
one of the original PAC
mans, which was a tabletop
machine, not an upright Oh
right. They're called cocktail machines.
Yeah. The cocktail machines. We
shouldn't the original ones and
yeah, no, he's, he's very
obsessed. It's a kind of
a, he's got a, he,
he built an outbuilding to
hold his arcade machine. Really?
That's cool. It is a
threshold once you've poured concrete
for your hobby, you're serious.
No. And that's funny, I'm
actually thinking of pouring concrete
to make a little house
for the, for the boys
to play in. There you
go. I mean, I think
that they, you know, what,
what little kid doesn't deserve
a tiny house next to
your house that looks like
the same house, but smaller.
I think that's brilliant. Absolutely
brilliant. And then of course
you get to exercise this
handiness in building a structure
and doing the walls and
building a roof and all
of that good stuff. And
your kids get this great
little house. Well, yeah. And
then they also remember their,
their dad as being amazing
and having hands Somehow you
will grow the banana fingers
on the way. Have you
considered the idea of the
banana fingers may be a
natural consequence of too much
hammering. I don't know. But
this man is, is, is,
he's probably 40% callous. You
know what I mean? It's
like, it's like, it's like,
it's almost like a personal
armor that, that, that like
guys over, over 60 get,
and when you shake their
hand and you know, you,
you know, you try, you
try to like, look them
straight in the eye and
give it a good squeeze
to, they don't think that
you're a wimp, you know,
but they can't even feel
it through the calluses. Yeah.
But you've got my hand
seriously Quick computers. I got
to do something with my
hands. It's gotta be, I
want to be one of
those guys with like, with
a really cool story about
how I lost my ring
finger while I was, you
know, Nice because you never
hear. Yeah, man. I was
coding an APL man. And
it took the pinky right
off. Look at that. You
know, nobody has that story
when they're, you know, not
so much because our, our,
our industry is based entirely
on, you know, the sin
of sex. I've, I've done
enough hardware work that I've
certainly drawn blood, you know,
blood on the rack. That
could be a book title,
You know, actually I've sliced
myself up. I'm pretty good
doing a, an opening up
cases and stuff that stuff's
like re razor in there.
But when you, when you
go looking for sympathy Yeah.
Not so much, you go
to the wife. Yeah, No,
I just cut myself. I'm
bleeding all over the computer.
What kind of idiot are
you? Well, you know, roofing
accidents somehow seem more manly,
Far more acceptable. Yeah. You're
outside. And they don't mean
any way to mean to
excuse the, the ladies that
are listening as well, that
want to do their own,
I mean, manly in a
non gender specific. There you
go. Oh, that's possible. Okay.
I believe you you're handy
though. You do this stuff.
Yeah. I mean, I, I
done a lot of case
alterations and I'm pretty comfortable
fixing a dishwasher and that
sort of thing. But I
give up on the lawn.
The lawn was the one
where I mowed it for
a year and then thought,
wow, for the price, for
the price of like a
quarter of an article, I
can have somebody do this
for me every year. Yeah.
See, I'm deep into that
right now. I used to
have a guy that did
the lawn and now I
got a really great lawnmower
and I'm using it. I
think I'm going to mow
the lawn. It's the, it's
the, the killing of wasps
that I'm ready to outsource.
Right. Cause man, you want
to hear me scream like
a small child, you know,
have me notice a wasps
nest. That's what I don't
mess around like that. And
I'm going to outsource that
Completely. They, my general contractor
comes into the house the
other day, three days ago
or so, and just said,
Hey, you got any Benadryl?
And I'm like, yeah, I
got some Benadryl. Why Bob
says, I just got stung
a few times. I walked
into a wasp nest and
I'm kind of allergic. So
if, yeah, if it's a
Benadryl, that'd be good. Otherwise
I gotta go to the
hospital. Wow. That's amazing. And
literally that comment, I'm like,
well, let me find that
Benadryl quickly for you while
you puff up and dug
her out and said, nah,
you probably should go for
the double dose there. If
I got bit by a
bee or wasp or anything
like that, you would be
hearing about it for weeks.
So the kicker, so he
literally took the Benadryl, went
back to work, got stung
again the next day and
then found the wasp nest
and took it up. That's
Epic. Now these, these guys,
you know, we, I don't
know that we can get
there. Scott, we guys who
really work outside of here.
I don't think it's possible.
I think that there's a
special kind of individual who
can pull something like that
off. And I know that
that is not me and
that's okay, but I want
to find the equivalent wasps'
nests story. You know, I
was in soft ice. Here
you go. I was deep
into ring zero. What's the
wash nest equivalent story. I
don't know. I've I recently
went through a serious debugging
cycle around a raid controller.
What happened if you care?
I don't know if you
know that. Well, only if
it ends with wasps or
Benadryl,  be cursing. That's
all. Let's hear it. And
then we'll okay. We'll call
that a minutia. They didn't
adapt tech guy for a
long time. I had, I've
got probably half a dozen
different adaptive controllers in various
machines in the server closet.
Okay. So you're bugging your
rate controller I'm well, what
it was, I was building
a new machine windows 2008
and the controller in question
was a 26, 10, which
is, or 28, 10, which
is not brand new. It's
a couple of generations old
and there are drivers built
into 2008 for it. But
adapt tech in their infinite
wisdom has chosen not to
make a client for it.
A client meaning an application
that allows you to edit
it. Yeah. Actually could figure
the rate array and so
forth, all that stuff. So
you have to do this
all in bios. What do
you mean by you mean
like hit, hit, hit, hit
the delete or hit F
two and go into their
bios. Yeah, the control. Yeah.
Actually hit control a during
the BootUp sequence. And that
drops into the bios of
the controller to do the
configuration configuring, which is incredibly
annoying when you're actually, you
know, running a proper rack
closet where I don't have,
I don't normally physically access
the machine. It's a lot
15 feet away from me.
It's in a, it's an
air proof air conditioned, soundproof
closet. I don't want to
go over there. I want
to do it all from
here, but you have to
do it in the closet.
Cause you're, you're in bios
or I could go so
far as to set up
a serial access, but that's
just excessive. So there I
am, you know, messing around
with the bias start they
build and I'm like, okay,
it's building, it'll be recognized.
Now it'll take a few
hours to finish building, but
I will just boot into
windows and it'll finish a
while. I'm setting other things
up and then drive letter
appears, everything works fine. You
start loading stuff onto it.
It's slow. Of course. Cause
it's still building but nothing
bad. And the next morning
I come back, I, next
morning, I go check on
the machine thinking, you know,
that Raider that builds probably
finished by now. Let's just
see how it is. And
when I get to the
machine and take a look
at it, the drive is
gone. It's just vanished. Really?
Hmm. That's not good. So
I can't look at the
array from windows cause there's
no clients. So I have
to go to them physically
to the machine, open up
the doors, stand in front
of the air conditioner, pull
up my KVM. So they,
my one, you know, keyboard
and screen boot the machine
and, and watch the bio
screen come up and it
goes, Oh, there was a,
there's a, the, the array
has been compromised rebuilding like,
Oh, okay. You know, something
weird happened there. I'll just
let it rebuild. So I
finished the boot, go back
to windows, drive letters there
again, everything seems to be
okay, tinker around for a
while. Find this is fine.
Come back the next day.
Drive letters, go on again.
And if you've never noticed
how bad it is when
you don't have confidence in
your servers, Well, this is
the thing. When, when, whenever
like I, you know, you
you've had this situation when
you buy a machine, you
unpack it. You don't want
to use the default OSTP.
Maybe you want to put
something else. That's crazy on
it. Right? Yup. So then
you, you run that new,
crazy thing. Like for an
example would be I buy
my wife a Dell before
she, you know, gets wind
of it. I try to
put windows seven on the
thing, like early, early beta
window seven. Right? Nice thing.
You know, thing, reboots and
then blue screens. Okay. Now
at this point, because she's
seen a blue screen once,
even though I was running
some random daily build of
some random thing. Right. She
can't trust it. Yep. She's
seen it. Blue screen wants.
And the earlier it blue
screens in the relationship that
you have with this machine,
the less you trust it.
Yeah. Well, but plus one,
you know, it's just like
infidelity. Once you've blue screen,
once you can never go
back, It's true. You can
never trust it. And then
you'll, you'll, you'll pull the
memory out and you'll remove
whatever you think that was.
But you'll never know. And
you'll always, you know, the
mouse you're happy I have
at this. Have you ever
had it where you're moving
the mouse and then it
freezes and then you throw
your hands up. Like you're
being arrested straight up in
the air because getting your
hands off the mouse quickly
enough will prevent whatever that
coming blue screen Don't do
it. Well. And we remember
this from windows three, one,
right. Where you could feel
the blue screen coming, right.
The machine would start behaving
a certain way. You're like,
Oh, I better save. Now
we're going to be going
down. Yup. Yup. Recommend you
use a disc flushing tool.
You know, it's coming soon,
quick flush C flush, Flush
everything down, get ready. Cause
you're right. Get those right.
Cash is handled or you're
in trouble. So wrestling with
my Raider Ray crisis. I
had gone around a couple
of times now. So finally
I'm like, all right, I'm
not sure what's happening on
this rebuild cycle. Of course
it's a, it's a big
array. So it takes a
whole day to build. So
now I booted into the
bios. I leave it there
and actually wa let the
whole build go by and
walk away, come back. And
I come back and it's
finished the build. But instead
of saying, you know, a
hundred percent, it says process
a card, Colonel stopped. That's
all it says, card. The
Colonel stopped. Yeah. So you
panicked in the, in the
little firmware of this Card.
For some reason, the card
is decided it's no longer
running. Which of course, if
you did that, while machine
was actually up in windows,
the drive letter just goes
away. But as soon as
you hit, when you're in
the bio, as soon as
hit a key, it forces
a reboot on the machine,
which kicks the kernel back
on again. And then it
goes through the rebuild cycle.
So this was one of
those errors where it got
to a hundred percent and
then it would. So how
do you know it's them
though? Because I always assume
it's me, whatever it is,
It's still a note was
them, all I knew is
now the, the Colonel on
the card was failing. So
first thing I'm thinking is
I've done something wrong. What
could it be? I've done
wrong. He still haven't fixed
it. You just know it's
going through this whole build
cycle before it's failing. So
when after I went and
checked to see if they'll
have the latest firmware, got
the latest firmware, they haven't
updated the firmware at all.
And go look at the
drive configuration that you sort
of chasing around all of
these little tidbits and came
to the conclusion that the
drives themselves were too large
for the controller. That seems
like something that your first
web search would have found.
Right? Yup. See, the, the
error was actually the error.
When I searched on the
totally generic error, it's an
error that's caused. The controller
has failed. And the error
was that we flipped the
overflow bit. When I actually
finished building the array and
went to write out the
value of the completed array.
It went, ah, this is
too big. Boom. Wow. So
I switched. It was a
raid five array that was
with over four terabytes and
I switched it to a
raid 10 array that's okay.
And then it worked just
fine. Nothing to it. Of
course I've now summarized in
five minutes, something that took
me a week and much
cursing too. Well, you should
summarize it in a, in
a two word blog post
so that someone can find
it the next time they
search for it. Because at
this point they're never going
to find No, they're not
going to find it. Well,
we, we should, we're going
to do a transfer. Right.
But they'll still screw it
up. I mean, they're gonna,
they're not gonna be able
to spell adapt tech, adapt
tech, even though right now,
we're actually having a conversation
at one way with the
transcriber. Yeah. We're talking to
Tresor. Here's how you spell
it out. Tech.  It's
difficult though. Yeah. It's not
an obvious falling, but it
also sort of, it's interesting
how adapt tech has set
us up. We should actually
replace that controller. That's the
real answer is you can't
trust it now. How would
I know now? Right. That
control is obviously overwhelmed by
terabyte hard drives. It needs
to be right Twice. You
know, terabytes. Just not that
big anymore. It's disturbing. Isn't
it? Well, yeah. I mean,
I've been shooting all this
HD video and I just,
I just did a thing
with Phil hack. I do,
I got 15 minutes. There's
a gig 15 video for
an eight and a gigabyte
of space. A terabyte is
still a thousand of those,
A thousand, 15 minutes. Right?
This is what is it
like two seasons of Seinfeld
who knows? I mean, that's
not a lot of space.
I've got 2.5 terabytes in
my windows home server. And
it's just, I'm feeling cramped,
feeling closed in. I am
uncomfortable. It's difficult. I collect
a lot of garbage, 250
hours, right? No, you're right.
That was a pretty long
time. That's a lot. That's
a lot of stuff, right?
That's 10 seasons. It is
all of Seinfeld. It really
is enabling hoarding, caught at
a cultural level. Like we
were already, we're hoarders people
that collected too much stuff,
collectors. And Same time we're
talking about everything's digital now.
So nothing's permanent. So, you
know, there'll be no record
of anything we did. And
when they, when they archeology,
That's a good point. When
the archeologists dig up your
hard drive, your they're going
to be like, Oh, the
raid controller doesn't handle drives
this size. Not the small.
I can't get this to
work. If only those, those
primitive peoples knew that an
adapt tech couldn't handle the
drive over a terabyte. Thank
goodness. Our advanced technology is
discovered Both the wife and
I are serious about resisting
hoarding. We built a storage
room in the renovation with
the idea that when that
storage room is full and
you have more stuff to
put in it, throw something
away or give it away.
Like, that's it we're we
live in fear of filling
our garage with stuff and
not parking cars in it.
And so we built a
storage room for the purpose.
So you already said your
solution was to build a
storage room. My wife, my
wife and my solution was
that if we haven't physically
touched something in two years,
it goes away. We get
rid of it. When I
say get rid of it.
I mean, we give it
away. Yeah. Give it away,
give it to charity something.
Well, that's what we've done
with the storage room. Is
it accumulates that point? And
then when it is full,
you go through it and
say, you know, this is
still in the box. We
put it in. When we
moved here 10 years ago,
be sure we need it.
Yeah. That is pretty bad.
That's pretty messed up. It's
funny. And I'm thinking the
same way with data, man.
It's just going through and
trying to keep that, keep
these things under control. How
many terabytes do you personally
need? Yeah, you really don't
need a lot. I mean,
if you, if you just
count video, it's really about
family photos. Right. You know,
I've talked about this before,
when I say that you
should have an escape drive
when they say the house
is on fire or whatever,
grab escape, drive and run,
you know? Yeah. Four gigs,
eight gigs, major family photos,
scans of your documents, scans
of all your ID, your
passport, all that kind of
stuff. Password, protect it with
true crypt and then run
And be able to walk
out the door. I actually,
I, the other day I
looked at the folder on
my server where every article
I ever written, all of
the original texts and so
forth with it, that's like
470 articles in 15 years,
150 mics. Right. Cause it's
just text it's text. Even,
even with the screenshots. It's
150 max scandalous. It's just,
yeah. Just the stuff that's
actually important on these drives
is really small. Well, we're
not going to solve these
problems today. Nope. So let's
leave it, leave it there.
My friend. Okay. All right.
Well, this has been another
episode of Hansel minutes and
I write in this case
Hanselman Nooshin with Canada. Yes,
it has been. It has
been. And it will be
again. Thanks. Alright. We'll see
you again. Next week. .